Alright! In this video, we are gonna
take a look at a pull request that I
received and this is from a student in
the course. And what they've done is
they've gone in and added in the
French messages. Now, I absolutely do not
speak French at all. I probably can order
a beer in French and that's probably the
extent of my French language. So, I'm
gonna have to trust this person on what
they've done there. You can see on
the screen here, I've got a note here
from this person and what they did is
they forked my GitHub repository for
Pet Clinic. They made some changes in
theirs
and then they submitted a pull request
to me, and you can see here, this is where
I got it. This is set up for pull
request number 59. I'm just gonna
close out this email and we're gonna
view it up in GitHub, so you can see
here Add French messages properties
number 59. I don't have a continuous
integration set up. If I did, that'd be
shown here whether or not it passed.
That's something I'm gonna add to this
very soon. I actually got planned on the
doc. I think it's gonna be in the
next few videos to get CircleCI cooking.
But here, what I wanna do is come in
and accept this. All he's done here
is he added in one file. So this is a
single commit. You can see, under the
resources/messages, we now have a
messages_fr.properties and
fr is the international code for French.
You can see here, these are some
properties that are set in there and I'm
just gonna have to trust that he's set
up these Unicode characters correctly
and that is actual French. I'm going to
trust him on that as far as getting
these properties cooking. So I'm gonna
back up one step here and I'm gonna
go ahead and merge in this pull request.
I'm just gonna confirm it and that will
close out showing that pull request is
now merged. Nothing is left open. One is
closed. So we can see that this Add French
messages properties is now closed inside
a GitHub. Now what I need to do on my
application is come over here and I am
going to go ahead and pull that. So I'm
gonna do a Git Repository Pull. This is gonna
pull down that change from GitHub. You
see that I did get one. We can see that
down on the bottom of the window here
that we did bring down that
messages_fr.properties. The way
this is gonna work is that's gonna match
up to your locale. Now I wanna talk
about this for a little bit. I do go into
this in my Spring Core Advanced Course.
It really hasn't changed much. I don't
see a lot as much demand for it anymore
as far as doing localization like this.
Spring does have very nice support built
in but we're seeing less international
web development done on Spring and that
moving more to JavaScript frameworks
like React and Angular where all the
heavy lifting is being done for
the UI. Still very valid to do for
straight HTML development or Thymeleaf.
I'm a big fan of Thymeleaf for doing that
but the bulk of the industry is kind of
moving towards these JavaScript
frameworks right now, so not as prevalent
as it was in the Spring community. What I
want to show you is just a quick
what's going on here.
Out of the box, this is in. You can see
here a Spring MVC. This is getting
wired up for us and this is a Spring
MVC branch, specifically to the servlet. So
this is not gonna be addressing
reactive. There is a reactive component
but I'm looking at the servlet version
of it, and what this setting up as a
LocaleResolver and it does this
AcceptHeaderLocaleResolver,
and I got that up on the screen here.
I don't have the sources downloaded but
you can see here it is going out of
there request header and looking at the
exact Accept-language. I'll show you
how that works here in a second.
Effectively, when you make a request with
your browser, let's go ahead and start
this guy up so I can run him.
When you make a request with your
browser, your operating system is going
to determine your locale. So when you go
in and set up your computer, your French,
your German, English, whatever, you're
gonna pick out a locale and that's
gonna get transmitted to your browser.
You can see that we are up running. Let's
come back over to Chrome and take a look
at localhost
and let me come up here.
I'm gonna go to View
Developer Tools. This is a Chrome
extension. I do highlight a lot of the
Chrome tools. I can actually all the
major browser tools. What I wanna
do is come here take a look at network.
Let me refresh this again so I can
capture that. When I look at this
localhost, let me bring this up a little
bit.
And here is the request header. So this
is HTTP going across the wire. The
secret sauce of how things are working
is I'm doing an Accept-Language of en-US.
So if I wanted an English US property
specifically, if I come back over here,
and look at the messages,
you can see that we have several
different implementations here. If I
wanted English US specific, the way
this is gonna work is it's gonna
look at language and then the locale, so
the first two characters are language,
secondary locale, so I could have a
different English properties file for US
and another one for Great Britain
because the Brits do talk a little funny
to me. Just a little plug at my British
colleagues. But that's how this is
working. This is a real high-level
overview. I do go into
internationalization quite a bit more.
But right now, if I either change my
browser settings to send either French,
German, English or than the default,
depending on how it's set up, that's how
it's going to resolve. So, kind of an
important thing, and again, sometimes it's
a pain in the neck to change your
browser settings to send this, otherwise
I'd be demonstrating it. It is possible
to set up a LocaleChangeInterceptor. So
this is something that can be configured.
I don't think Spring Boot configures this
by default, but you can configure it, add
in a bean and then you can pass in a
parameter to change your language. So it's
kind of handy thing to do if you needed
to do that functionality. Otherwise, if
you don't have this set up and I'm
almost hundred percent sure it does not
get auto configured for you inside a
Spring Boot. I could be wrong on that. But
as far as I know. it does not. You do need
to change your browser settings to send
in a different accept language. But for
now, if somebody from France were to
check out this application and run it, they
would see properties from this French
one from the contribution that was made.
So kind of a nice little contribution
where the student made it,
internationalization for French.
Maybe there'll be some more, If I do get
some more pull requests with different
languages, I will update the project with
them.